# babel-vue

A Vue.js interface to browse the Library of Babel.  
Works in conjunction with [babel-api](https://github.com/17maiga/babel-api).  
Made as part of a university assignment.

## Installation

Simply clone the project and run the following:

```shell
npm install
npm run dev
```

The project should then be available at
[http://localhost:5173](http://localhost:5173).

This project is also available online at
[https://babel.17maiga.fr](https://babel.17maiga.fr)!

## Main objectives and features

I was inspired by the official [Library of Babel](https://libraryofbabel.info)
website and wanted to recreate some of the essential features offered by it,
like being able to browse the Library by providing a room id, wall, shelf,
volume and page numbers, ensuring the contents of a book at a given address
would always be the same, or being able to find text in the Library.

I was able to implement these by reimplementing a very simplified version of the
Library's algorithm and serving it behind an Express.js API. I was then able to
create a coherent user interface to access the data generated by the algorithm.

Users are able to browse the Library by providing a book address (i.e. a room
id, wall, shelf and book numbers) through the `/browse` route, browse a book's
pages through the `/page` route, and find text in the Library through the
`/find` route, which they will find highlighted in the resulting page.

## API

I created the API for this project from scratch, using the Express.js framework
and attempting to reimplement the Library of Babel's algorithm as closely as
possible. The API reference is available at
[https://github.com/17maiga/babel-api](https://github.com/17maiga/babel-api) or
at [https://babel-api.17maiga.fr](https://babel-api.17maiga.fr).

## Difficulties

I did not have any major difficulties while working on this project (excluding
the implementation of the API) and was able to implement all the features I
wanted to. I struggled a bit with figuring out how to transfer data between
components (i.e. the search text from the Find view to the Page view) but ended
up using Pinia to store the data, which worked well.

Possible improvements could include better navigation between books and shelves,
as for now, the user needs to go back to the Browse view to change the book and
has to enter the room id and wall number again. I also think the UI could be
improved, as it is quite basic and could be more user-friendly. Accessibility
features could also be added to make the website more accessible to people with
disabilities.

## Opinion on the course

I enjoyed this course and found it quite refreshing compared to last year's
course on Symfony (probably because I prefer JavaScript :)). My only complaint
would be that the course was a bit too short, as I would have liked to learn
more about things like best practices, testing, or deployment.
